#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

=RFXCMD=

==DESCRIPTION==

RFXCMD is Python script that interfaces the RFX USB devices from RFXcom [www.rfxcom.com].

==REQUIREMENTS==

 * Python 2.6+
 * Tested on Raspberry Pi (Debian Squeezy) with Python 2.6
 * Tested on Mac OSX 10.7.4 with Python 2.7.1
 * Tested with RFXCOM device RFXtrx433-USB (v2.1)

==RFXCMD.PY==

Options;

 -d		serial device of the RFX device

 -a		Action: LISTEN, STATUS 
 
 -c		output data in CSV format, one line per device data
 
 -m		Insert all data to a MySQL database
 
 -s		MySQL server address (default : localhost) (option -m mandantory)
 
 -b		MySQL database (default : rfxcmd) (option -m mandantory)
 
 -u		MySQL username (option -m mandantory)
 
 -p		MySQL password (option -m mandantory)


	====option -d====
	
	Specify the serial device where the RFX device is connected to. On Linux system like
	Ubuntu the name can be like /dev/ttyUSB0, or on OSX it can be /dev/tty.usbserial-03VHG0ZQ
	
	====option -a====
	
	Specify the action you want the script to do.
	
	LISTEN - The script will start listen to the incoming data from the RFX device, this is also
	the default option if the switch -a is not specified.
	
	STATUS - The script will send the status request and print the current status of the RFX
	device to the screen
	
	====option -m====
	
	Activate the MySQL function for the script, it will require switches to specify MySQL details.
	
	To be able to use the MySQL function you need to have the MySQL python extension installed, more
	information can be found here; http://mysql-python.sourceforge.net/
	
	You need also to create the compatible tables for RFXCMD to be able to insert the data to the
	database.
	
	At current moment there are tables made for following messages;
	
	File: mysql_weather.txt
	
	* 0x50 Temperature sensors
	* 0x51 Humidity sensors
	* 0x52 Temperature and humidity sensors
	* 0x53 Barometric sensors
	* 0x54 Temperature, humidity and barometric sensors
	* 0x55 Rain sensors
	* 0x56 Wind sensors
	* 0x57 UV sensors

	File: mysql_energy.txt
	
	* 0x59 Current sensors (ELEC1)
	* 0x5A Energy usage sensors (ELEC2)	
	
	To import the table to MySQL from command line;
	
	$ mysql -u user -p < mysql_weather.txt
	
	====option -s, -b, -u, -p====
	
	All these options are used for MySQL only, and are needed when the MySQL function is used.
	The -s (server) and -b (database) has default values and are not mandantory.
	
	The default value for server is localhost and the default value for database is rfxcmd
		

==EXAMPLES==

To listen to the RFX device and print all incoming data on screen

$ ./rfxcmd.py -d /dev/ttyUSB0 -a listen

To insert all received data to a MySQL database. In this case both MySQL server 
and MySQL database uses the default values.

$ ./rfxcmd.py -d /dev/ttyUSB0 -a listen -m -u testuser -p testpassword

Get current status of the RFX device

$ ./rfxcmd.py -d /dev/ttyUSB0 -a status

==OTHER==

If RFXCMD messages are not processed, you get instead this message;

"RFXCMD does not handle this message, see readme.txt for more information."

That means that I have not included the post process for the specific protocol, most likely 
because I don't have the sensor and therefor no way to test it. If you want the RFXCMD to 
handle the message then please send me the raw output, and preferable also from RFXManager, so
I can accurately integrate the message to RFXCMD.

==NOTES==

RFXCOM is a Trademark of RFSmartLink.

==COPYRIGHT==

Copyright (C) 2012 Sebastian Sjoholm

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.