#summary Report a issue regarding RFXcmd

= Introduction =

Description how to report trouble/issue with RFXcmd 0.3 and later.

= General recommendations =

It is recommended to have the loglevel "error" activated in the config.xml, this will write the RFXcmd generated error to the logfile each time it occurs.

= Details =

If a problem, crash or any other issue is occurring with RFXcmd, then it always good to write a issue report, to write a issue report on Google an account is needed, if you don't have a Google account and don't want to create one, then send me the issue by email (email can be found in the source code).

== RFXcmd Version ==

It is important to include the RFXcmd version, easiest is it to include a printout from the command _rfxcmd.py -v_ this will printout the version details.

{{{
$ ./rfxcmd.py -v
RFXCMD Version: 0.3 (515)
Date: 2013-05-18 14:17:08 +0200 (Sat, 18 May 2013) 
$
}}}

== Reproduction ==

Can the problem be reproduced, if it can be manually reproduced then include instructions. If the problem occurs with a specific sensor message, then be sure to include the sensor data and the message as well.

If it is possible to reproduce it is usually easy to fix it as well. 

== Logs, logs, logs ==

Include as much logs as possible, and if only possible run the RFXcmd with the debug switch (-D), this will output lot of logs, but they are very useful when looking for the problem.

== Final words ==

Even if it is a small issue that does not cause any big problem, I would like to know, just send me a email of it, to correct all issues big or small, makes the RFXcmd more robust. Since RFXcmd support lot of different ways to configure and use it, it is nearly impossible for me to test every single functionality.